I'm, uh, Jerry Lundegaard.
- You're Jerry Lundegaard?
- Yah.
Shep Proudfoot said--
Shep said you'd be here
at 7:30. What gives, man?
Shep said 8:30.
We've been here an hour.
He's peed three times already.
Aw. I'm sure sorry. Shep told me
8:30. It was a mix-up, I guess.
- You got the car?
- Yah, you bet.
It's out in the lot there.
- Brand-new, burnt-umber Ciera.
- Yeah, OK. Well, sit down, then.
I'm Carl Showalter. This is my
associate, Gaear Grimsrud.
Yah. How ya doin'?
So, we all set on
this thing, then?
Sure, Jerry. Why wouldn't we be?
Yeah, no, I'm sure you are.
Shep vouched for you.
I've got every confidence here
in you fellas.
I guess that's it, then.
Here are the keys.
No, that's not it, Jerry.
- Huh?
- The new vehicle, plus $40,000.
Yah, but the deal was
the car first,
then the $40,000, like as if
it was the ransom.
- I thought Shep told you.
- Shep didn't tell us much.
Well, OK. It's--
Except that you were gonna
be here at 7:30.
- Yah, that was a mix-up.
- Yeah. You already said that.
Yah. But it's not
a whole pay-in-advance deal.
See, I give you a brand-new
vehicle in advance, and then--
I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry.
OK.
I'm not gonna sit here
and debate.
I will say this, though.
What Shep told
us didn't make a lot of sense.
Oh, no, it's real sound.
It's all worked out.
You want your own
wife kidnapped?
Yah.
You...
My point is, you pay the ransom,
what, 80,000 bucks?
I mean, you give us half the
ransom - 40,000. You keep half.
It's like robbin' Peter to
pay Paul. Makes no sense.
OK. See, it's not me paying
the ransom.
The thing is, my wife,
she's wealthy.
Her dad, he's real well-off.
Now, I'm in a bit of trouble.
What kind of trouble
you in, Jerry?
Well, that's...
I'm not gonna get into...
See, I just need the money.
Now, her dad,
he's real well-off.
So why not just ask
him for the money?
- Or your fucking wife.
- Or your fucking wife, Jerry.
Well...
It's all part of this...
They don't know I need it, see.
OK, so there's that.
And even if they did,
I wouldn't get it.
So there's that on top, then.
- These are personal matters.
- Personal matters?
Yah. Personal matters
that needn't, uh...
OK, Jerry. You're tasking us to
perform this mission,
but you won't...
You won't...
Oh, fuck it.
Let's take a look at that Ciera.
- Hon!
- Hi, hon. Welcome back.
- How was Fargo?
- Yah. Real good.
- Dad's here.
- How ya doin', Wade?
- Yah. Pretty good.
- What you watchin' there?
- Gophers.
- Who they playin'?
- Oooh.
- Is he stayin' for supper, then?
- Yah, I think so. Dad?
- What?
- You stayin' for supper?
Yeah.
- May I be excused?
- What?
- You done there?
Uh-huh. I'm going out.
- Where are you going?
- Just McDonald's.
- Back at 9.30.
- OK.
He just ate. He didn't finish.
He's going to McDonald's instead
of finishing here.
He sees his friends there.
It's OK.
It's OK, McDonald's?
What do you think they do there?
They don't drink milkshakes!
It's OK, Dad.
Wade, have you had a chance
to think about
um, that deal I was
talkin' about?
Those 40 acres there on Wayzata?
You told me about it.
Yah. You said you'd have to
think about it.
I understand it's
a lot of money.
It's a heck of a lot.
What did you want to put there?
- A lot. It's a limited...
- I know it's a lot.
- I mean a parking lot.
- Yeah, well, $750,000 is a lot.
Yeah, well, it's a chunk, but...
I had a couple lots, late 50's.
Lost a lot of money.
A lot of money.
Yah, but the difference...
I thought you were gonna show
it to Stan Grossman?
He passes on this stuff before
it gets kicked up to me.
Stan'll say no dice.
That's why you pay him.
I'm askin' you here, Wade.
This could work out real good
for me and Jean and Scotty.
Jean and Scotty
never have to worry.
Where is Pancake's House?
- What?
- We stop at Pancake's House.
You nuts?
We had pancakes for breakfast.
I gotta go to a place where I
get a shot and a beer and steak.
Not more fucking pancakes.
Come on.
Oh, come on, man.
OK, here's an idea.
We can stop outside of Brainerd.
I know a place there we can
get laid. What do you think?
- I'm fuckin' hungry now.
- Yeah, yeah. Jesus.
I'm saying we can stop,
get pancakes
and then we'll get laid.
All right?
We sat right here in this
room and went over this.
Yah, but that TruCoat...
I sat right here and I said I
didn't want any TruCoat.
Yah, but I'm saying,
that TruCoat,
you don't get it, you get
oxidation problems...
Cost you a heck of a lot
more than $500.
You're sitting there
talking in circles
you're talkin' like we didn't go
over this already.
- Yeah, but this TruCoat...
- We had a deal for $19,500.
You sat there and darned if
you didn't tell me
you'd get me this car without
the sealant for $19,500.
All right, I'm not
saying I didn't.
You called me twenty minutes ago
and said you had it.
"Ready to make delivery" you
says. "Come on down and get it."
And here you are and you're
wasting my time
and my wife's time.
And I'm paying $19,500
for this vehicle here.
All right.
I'll talk to my boss.
See, they install that TruCoat
at the factory.
There's nothing we can do.
But I'll talk to my boss.
These guys here. These guys.
It's always the same.
It's always more.
You going to the
Gophers on Sunday?
Oh, you betcha.
You wouldn't have
an extra ticket?
You kiddin'?
Well.
He's never done this before,
but seein' as it's special
circumstances an' all,
he says I can knock $100
off that TruCoat.
One hundred?
You lied to me, Mr. Lundegaard.
You're a bald-faced liar.
Bucky, please.
A... fucking liar.
Where's my goddamn checkbook?
Let's get this over with.
Where is it?
From Hollywood,
"The Tonight Show", star...
I am talking about
your potential.
Mm-hm.
You're not a C student.
Yeah.
Yet you're gettin' C grades.
It's that disparity there
that concerns your dad and me.
Uh-huh.
- You know what a disparity is?
- Yeah!
OK. Well, that's why we don't
want you goin' out for hockey.
Oh, man! Come on.
What's the big deal?
- Hold on.
- What's the big deal?
- Hello.
- Yeah, hi, hon.
- Oh, hi, Dad.
- Is Jerry around?
- Yah. Hon? Yah, he's here.
I'll catch him for ya.
- Hon? It's Dad.
- OK.
Look, Dad,
there's no fucking way...
Scotty!
Hey, let's watch
that language there.
- How ya doin' there, Wade?
- What's goin' on?
Uh, nothin', Wade.
How ya doin' there?
Stan Grossman looked
at your proposal.
He says it's pretty sweet.
- No kiddin'?
- Might be interested.
No kiddin'? I'd need the cash
pretty quick there,
in order to close the deal.
Come by at 2:30.
We'll talk about it.
If your numbers are right,
Stan says it's sweet.
- Stan, you know, Grossman.
- Yah.
- 2:30.
- Yah. OK.
Say, Shep, how ya doin' there?
Say, you know those two fellas
you put me in touch
with up there in Fargo?
Put you in touch with Grimsrud.
Well, he had a buddy
there. He...
- I don't vouch for him.
- That's OK.
I vouch for Grimsrud.
Who's his buddy?
Uh, Carl something.
Never heard of him.
Don't vouch for him.
He's a buddy of the
guy you vouch for,
so I'm not worrying.
I'm just wondering, see...
I gotta get in touch with him.
See, this deal I needed 'em for,
I may not need it any more.
- Something's happenin', see.
- Call him up.
I did that, and I haven't been
able to get him.
So I thought maybe you'd know
an alternate number.
- Nope.
- OK.
Well, real good, then.
Can you crack
a fuckin' window open, man?
You know, it's proven second-
hand smoke is a carcino...
You know, a cancer agent.
Look at that... Twin Cities.
That's the IDS building,
the big glass one.
The tallest skyscraper
in the Midwest,
after the, uh, Sears in Chicago,
or John Hancock Building,
whatever.
Have you ever been
to Minneapolis?
Nope.
Would it kill you
to say something?
- I did.
"No"?
That's the first thing you've
said in the last four hours.
That's a... that's a fountain
of conversation, man.
That's a geyser.
I mean, whoa, daddy.
Stand back, man.
Shit.
I'm sittin' here drivin'-
I'm doin' all the drivin',
whole fuckin' way from
Brainerd, drivin',
just tryin' to chat, you know,
keep our spirits up, fight the
boredom of the road,
and you can't say
one fuckin' thing
just in the way of conversation?
Oh, fuck it. I don't have to
talk either, man.
See how you like it.
Just total fuckin' silence.
Two can play at
that game, smart guy.
We'll just see how you like it.
Total silence.
Mr. Lundegaard, this is
Reilly Diefenbach from GMAC.
How are you this morning?
Real good. How you doin'?
Good. You're damn hard to
get on the phone.
Yah, it's pretty darn busy here,
but that's the way we like it.
That's for sure.
Now, I just need, on these last
financing documents you sent us,
I can't read the serial numbers
of the vehicles.
Yah, but it's OK.
The loans are in place.
I already got the...
the... What?
$320,000. You got the
money last month.
Yah. So we're all set, then.
Yes, but the vehicles
you're borrowing on,
I can't read the serial
numbers. If you...
But the deal's already done.
I got the money.
Yes. We have an audit here.
I just have to know that these
vehicles you're financing
with this money, that
they really exist.
- Yah, they exist all right.
- Well, I'm sure they do.
But I can't read
the serial numbers,
so if you could read me...
Yah, but, see...
I don't have 'em in front of me.
Why don't I fax you over a copy?
Fax is no good.
That's what I have, and I
can't read the darn thing...
Yah, OK. I'll have my girl
send you a copy, then.
OK. Because if I can't correlate
this note with the vehicles,
I call back that money.
- Yah. How much money was that?
- $320,000.
I gotta correlate that money
with the cars
it's being lent on.
OK. No problem.
- I'll fax that over...
- No, no. Fax is...
I mean send it over.
- I'll shoot it over to you.
- OK, fine.
OK. Real good, then.
- We're with Katie Carlson.
- Hi.
Now, we just want to remind
all of our viewers at home
that this March, for the second
year in a row,
Katie and I,
along with Twin City Travel,
will be leading
a two-week trip down the Nile.
It's a terrific time. I know
you've heard about it.
We want all of you to come with.
And that's the truth.
OK, for those who've just joined
us, Katie is gonna show us...
- ..how to make Holidazzle eggs
ourselves at home.
- Now, Katie, I gotta admit.
- What?
I was a little bit surprised
when I first picked this up.
This is an empty egg.
That's right, Dale.
There was an egg in here, right?
- Yeah.
- OK, well, how do you...
You don't have an empty chicken
somewhere that lays empty eggs?
No, no. I guarantee this was
an honest-to-goodness Grade A...
Argh!
- Unguent.
- What?
I need unguent.
- Am I doin" it?
- Push it.
Shit.
Argh!
How're you, Stan?
- How ya doin', Wade?
- Good to see you again, Jerry.
If the numbers are right,
this looks pretty sweet.
Oh, those numbers
are right, all right.
- Believe me.
- This is doable.
- Congratulations, Jer.
- Thanks, Stan. It's a pretty...
What kind of finder's fee
were you looking for?
Huh?
The financials are
pretty thorough,
so the only thing we don't
know is your fee.
My fee? Wade, what the heck
are you talkin' about?
- Stan and I are OK.
- Yah.
- We're good to load in.
But we never talked about
your fee for bringing it to us.
No, Wade, I was
bringing you this deal
for you to loan me the
money to put in.
It's my deal here, see.
We thought you were
bringing us an investment.
Yah. Right.
You're sayin'...
What are you sayin'?
You're saying we
put in all the money
and you collect
when it pays off.
No, no, see, but I'd pay you
back the principal and interest.
- Heck, I'd go one over prime.
- We're not a bank, Jerry.
If I wanted bank interest
on $750,000,
I'd go to Midwest Federal,
talk to Bill Diehl.
- He's at Norstar.
- He's at...
No, no. But, see,
I don't need a finder's fee.
I need...
Finder's fee's, what, 10%?
Heck, that's not gonna do
it for me. I need the principal.
We're not gonna
just give you $750,000.
What the heck were you thinking?
If I'm only getting bank
interest,
I want complete security.
Heck, FDIC.
I don't see nothing
like that here.
Yeah, but I... I...
OK. I'd... I'd guarantee you
your money back.
I'm not talking about
your damn word, Jerry.
- Jeez, what the heck are you...
- We're not a bank, Jerry.
Well, look, I don't wanna
cut you out of the loop,
but this here's a good deal.
I assume if
you're not interested,
you won't mind if we move on it.
Independently.
Dammit! Dammit!
Hon?
Got the groceries.
Yah, Wade, it's Jerry.
Wade, it's Jerry. I don't know
what to do. It's Jean.
I don't know what to do.
It's my wife.
It's Jean.
Yeah, Wade,
it's Jerry. I...
Wade, it's Jerry. I...
We gotta talk.
It's somethin'...
Aw, jeez, it's terrible.
- Yes?
- Uh, uh...
Yeah. Wade Gustafson, please.
Shut the fuck up,
or I'll throw you
back into the trunk, you know.
Jeez, that's more than
I've heard you say all week.
Ah, shit.
Oh, the tags.
All right, it's just the tags.
I never put my tags on the car.
Don't worry.
I'll take care of this.
Keep it still back there, lady,
or else we're gonna have to,
you know, shoot ya.
Hey, I'll take care of this.
How can I help you, Officer?
This a new car, then, sir?
Certainly is, Officer.
Still got that smell.
You're required to display
temporary tags,
either in the plate area
or taped to the back window.
Certainly.
Can I see your
license and registration?
Certainly.
Yeah, I was
gonna tape up the tag,
you know,
to be in full compliance,
but, uh, it must've, uh...
It must've slipped my mind.
So maybe the best thing to do
would be to take care of
that right here in Brainerd.
- What's this, sir?
- My license and registration.
Yeah, I wanna be in compliance.
I was just thinking we could
take care of it
right here, in Brainerd.
Put that back in your pocket,
please.
And step out of the car,
please, sir.
Shut the fuck up!
Whoa.
Whoa, daddy.
You'll take care of it.
You are smooth smooth, you know.
Oh, daddy.
Just clear him off the road.
Yeah.
Oh, jeez.
Hi, it's Marge.
Oh, my. Where?
Yah.
Aw, jeez.
OK, there in a jiff.
Real good, then.
OK.
You can sleep. It's early yet.
- Gotta go?
- Yeah.
I'll fix you some eggs.
That's OK, hon. I gotta run.
You gotta eat a
breakfast, Marge.
I'll fix you some eggs.
Oh, hon, you can sleep.
You gotta eat a breakfast.
I'll fix you some eggs.
Ah, Norm.
Thanks, hon. Time to shove off.
- Love you, Margie.
- Love you, hon.
- Hon.
- Yah?
Prowler needs a jump.
Hiya, Lou.
Whoo! What ya got there?
Margie, thought you might
need a little warm-up.
Thanks a bunch.
What's the deal?
Gary says triple homicide.
Yah. Looks pretty bad.
Two of 'em are over here.
- Where is everybody?
Well...
It's cold, Margie.
Watch your step, Margie.
Aw, jeez. So...
Aw, jeez.
Here's the second one!
It's in the head and
the hand there.
I guess that's a
defensive wound.
Oh, yah?
Where's the state trooper?
Back there a good piece, in
the ditch next to his prowler.
OK.
So we got a trooper
pulls someone over,
we got a shooting,
these folks drive by,
there's a high-speed pursuit,
ends here, and then this
execution-type deal.
Yah.
I'd be very surprised if our
suspect was from Brainerd.
Yah.
And I'll tell you what.
From his footprint,
he looks like a big fella.
You see something down
there, Chief?
No, I just think I'm gonna barf.
Jeez.
- You OK, Margie?
- Yeah, I'm fine.
It's just morning sickness.
- Well, that passed.
- Yah?
Yah. Now I'm hungry again.
You had breakfast yet, Margie?
Oh, yah.
- Norm made some eggs.
- Yah?
Well...
What now, do you think?
Let's go take a look
at that trooper.
There's different footprints
here, Lou.
Yah?
Yah. This guy's
smaller than his buddy.
Oh, yah?
- For Pete's sake.
- How's it look, Marge?
Well, he's got his gun
on his hip there,
and he looks like a
nice enough guy.
- It's a real shame.
- Yah.
Didn't monkey with his
car there, did ya?
No way.
Somebody shut his lights.
Guess the little guy sat in
there waiting for his buddy.
Yah. Would've
been cold out here.
Heck, yah.
- Ya think, is Dave open yet?
- Dave?
You think he's mixed up in this?
Oh, no. I just wanna get Norm
some night crawlers.
Did you look in his
citation book?
Yah.
Last vehicle he wrote in was a
tan Ciera at 2:18am.
Under plate number he put DLR.
I figure they stopped him
or shot him
before he could finish filling
out the tag number.
Uh-huh.
So I got the state
looking for a Ciera
with a tag startin' DLR.
They don't got no match yet.
I'm not sure that I
agree with you
100% on your police
work there, Lou.
- Yah?
- Yah.
I think that vehicle there
probably had dealer plates.
DLR.
Oh.
Jeez.
Lou, d'you hear the
one about the guy
who couldn't afford
personalized plates,
so he went and
changed his name to J3L24047
Yah, that's a good one.
Look, all's I know
is you got a problem,
you call a professional.
No. They said no cops. They were
darn clear on that, Wade.
They said "You call your cops,
we're gonna shoot..."
Of course, they'll say that.
Where's my protection?
They got Jean.
If I give these sons of bitches
a million dollars
where's my guarantee
they'll let her go?
- Well, they...
- A million dollars
is a lot of damn money.
- They got my daughter.
- Think this thing through.
You give ‘em what they want,
why won't they let her go?
You gotta listen to me
on this one, Wade.
Heck, you don't know. You're
just whistling Dixie here.
The cops can advise us on this.
I'm saying call a professional.
No. No cops!
That's final.
This is my deal here, Wade.
- Yeah...
- Jean is my wife here.
I gotta tell you, Wade, I'm
leaning to Jerry's viewpoint.
- Well...
- We gotta protect Jean. These...
We're not holding any cards.
They got 'em all,
so they call the shots.
- You're darned tootin'.
- Oh, dammit.
- I'm tellin' ya.
- Well, why don't we...
Stan, I'm thinking we should
offer 'em half a million.
Now, come on here!
No way, Wade. No way.
We're not horse-tradin'
here, Wade.
Yeah.
We gotta just bite the
bullet on this thing.
Yeah.
So, uh, what's the next step
here, Jerry?
They're gonna call me
with instructions for a drop
- I need the money by tomorrow.
- Dammit!
- How was everything today?
- Yah. Real good now.
How you doin'?
OK. Now, we'll
get the money together.
Don't worry about it, Jerry.
Now, do you want anyone at home
with you till they call?
No, Il... They were just supposed
to be dealing with me.
They were real clear.
You know, they said
no one listening in.
They'll be watchin', you know.
Maybe it's all bull,
but, like you said,
Stan, they're callin' the shots.
OK.
Now, is Scotty gonna
be all right?
Yah. Jeez, Scotty.
- Yah. I'll go talk to him.
How ya doin' there, Scotty?
Dad.
What are they doin'?
What do you think they're
doin' with Mom?
It's OK, Scotty.
They're not gonna
wanna hurt her any.
These men,
they just want money.
What if something
goes wrong, Dad?
No, no, no. Nothing's
going wrong here.
Granddad and I, we're making
sure this gets handled right.
I really think we should
call the cops.
No, no. No one can know
about this thing.
We gotta play ball with
these guys.
Ask Stan Grossman, he'll
tell ya the same thing.
But, Dad...
We're gonna get
Mom back for ya,
but we gotta play ball,
you know.
That's the deal here.
So if Lorraine calls, or Sylvia,
you just say Mom's down in
Florida with Pearl and Marty.
That's the best we can do here.
No!
Agh!
Whoops!
Thanks, Myra.
- Mornin'.
- Carol.
Oh, Janie, two more
of those Skin-So-Softs, please.
Hiya, hon.
I brought you some
lunch, Margie.
- What are those, night crawlers?
- Yah.
- Aw, thanks, hon.
- You bet. Thanks for lunch.
Oh, yah, looks pretty good.
- What have we got here? Arby's?
- Uh-huh.
- How's the paintin' goin'?
- Pretty good.
Found out the Hautmans are
entering a painting this year.
Aw, hon, you're
better than them.
They're real good.
They're good, Norm.
But you're better.
Ah.
You think so?
Hey, you got Arby's all over me.
Hey, Norm. How's the
paintin' goin'?
Not too bad, you know.
How we doin' on that vehicle?
No motels registered a
Ciera last night.
But the night before,
two men checked into the Blue Ox
registering a Ciera
and leaving the tag space blank.
- Jeez, that's a good lead.
- Yah.
Blue Ox, that's that truckers'
joint on 1-35?
Yah.
Owner was on the desk then.
Said these two had company.
- Oh, yah?
- Yah.
We both did.
She went to college, too.
I went to Normandale
for about a year and a half.
- Yah, that's where we met.
- I dropped out.
- Yah, she dropped.
- Yah.
- So where are you girls from?
- Chaska.
Le Sueur, but I went to high
school in White Bear Lake.
Go, Bears.
OK. I want you to tell me
what these fellas look like.
Well, the little guy was
kinda funny-lookin'.
In what way?
I don't know.
Just funny-lookin'.
Can you be any more specific?
I couldn't really say.
He wasn't circumcised.
Was he funny-lookin'
apart from that?
Yah.
So, you were having sex
with the little fella, then?
Uh-huh.
Anything else you can
say about him?
No. Like I say,
he was funny-lookin'.
More than most people, even.
- What about the other fella?
- He was older.
He looked like the
Marlboro Man.
Oh, yah?
Yah. But maybe
I'm saying that
cos he smoked a
lot of Marlboros.
Uh-huh.
Like a subconscious
type of thing.
- Oh, yah, that can happen.
- Yah.
Hey, they were goin'
to the Twin Cities.
Oh, yah?
Yah. Yah. Is that useful to ya?
Oh, you betcha, yah.
Yah.
- Come on! Goddammit!
Jesus Christ.
Come on, you fucking shit box.
Been here for days.
Goddammit, nothin' to do.
Fucking TV doesn't even...
Dammit, come on! Plug me in,
man. Give me a fucking signal.
Goddammit!
Unbelievable. Come on.
God...
Fuck!
Come on, plug me into the
ozone, baby. Come on.
Come on!
Fuck. Fuck.
Fuck! Fuck!
The bark beetle
carries the worm to its nest,
where it will feed its young
for up to six months.
In the spring, the larvae hatch
and the cycle begins again.
Well.
I'm turning in, Norm.
Oh, yeah?
Here it is throwing
off the larval envelope.
- Hello.
- Yah, is this Marge?
- Yah.
- Margie Olmstead?
Yah. Who's this?
This is Mike Yanagita!
You know, Mike Yanagita.
Remember me?
M...
Mike Yanagita?
Yah!
Well, yah.
Course I remember you.
How are ya doin'?
- What time is it?
- Oh, jeez,
It's a quarter to eleven.
- I hope I didn't wake you.
- No. That's OK.
Yah, I'm down in
the Twin Cities.
I was watching on TV about
these shootings in Brainerd,
- and I saw you on the news.
- Yah.
I thought "Jeez, is that Margie
Olmstead? I can't believe it."
Yah. That's me.
Well, how the heck are ya?
OK, you know. OK.
- Yah?
- Yah.
- How are you doin'?
- Oh, pretty good.
Aw, heck. It's been
such a long time, Mike.
It's great to hear from ya.
Yah, you got your, um...
This is loaded here. This
has your independent...
Your front-wheel drive,
rack-and-pinion steering,
antilock brakes, alarm, radar.
And I can give it to you
with a heck of a sealant.
This TruCoat stuff,
- it'll keep the salt off.
- I don't need no sealant.
Yah, you don't need that.
Were you thinking
of financing here?
You gotta be aware of this GMAC
plan they have now. It's super.
- Call for you, Jerry.
- Yeah, OK.
Jerry Lundegaard.
Jerry, got the
phone to yourself?
- Well, yah.
- You know who this is?
Well, yah. I got an idea. How's
that Ciera workin' out for ya?
Circumstances have
changed, Jerry.
Well... what do you mean?
Things have changed.
Circumstances beyond the...
Acts of God, force majeure.
What the... How's Jean?
- Who's Jean?
- My wife. What the...
She's all right,
but there's three people in
Brainerd who aren't OK.
What are you talking about?
Let's finish this deal here.
Blood has been shed, Jerry.
- What the heck do you mean?
- Three people in Brainerd.
Oh, jeez.
That's right.
And we need more money.
What are you talkin' about?
What have you got mixed up in?
- We need more money...
- This was a no-rough-stuff deal.
Don't ever interrupt me, Jerry.
Just shut the fuck up!
Well, I'm sorry, but I just...
I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry.
I'm not gonna debate.
We now want the entire $80,000.
Oh, for Chrissake here.
Blood's been shed.
We've incurred risks.
I'm coming to town tomorrow
for the money.
Now, we had a deal here.
A deal's a deal.
Is it, Jerry?
Ask those three poor souls up in
Brainerd if a deal's a deal.
Ask ‘em!
The heck do you mean?
"Heck d'you mean?"
See you tomorrow.
- Yah.
- Jerome Lundegaard?
- This is Reilly Diefenbach
at GMAC. Sir, I've not received
those vehicle IDs.
Yah. I... Those are in the mail.
That may be.
However, absent the receipt of
those numbers
by tomorrow afternoon,
I'll have to refer this matter
to our legal department.
- Yah.
- My patience is at an end.
- Good day, sir.
Yah.
Hi, Norm. How ya doin', Margie?
How's the fricassee?
Pretty darn good.
You want some?
Oh, no. I got... Hey, Norm.
I thought you was goin' ice
fishing up at Mille Lacs.
- Yah. After lunch.
- Ah.
- What you got there?
- Oh. The numbers you asked for.
Calls made from the lobby
phone at the Blue Ox.
Two to Minneapolis that night.
First one's a trucking company,
second's a private residence.
A Shep Proudfoot.
Uh-huh. A what?
Shep Proudfoot. That's a name.
- Uh-huh.
- Yah.
OK. Yah.
Think I'll take a drive down
there, then.
Oh, yah? Twin Cities?
Oh, yah?
Dammit, I wanna be a
part of this thing.
No. Wade, they were clear.
They said they'd call tomorrow
with instructions,
and it's gotta be
delivered by me alone.
It's my money. I'll deliver it.
- What do they care?
- Wade's got a point there.
I'll handle the call if
you want, Jerry.
No, no. See, they
only deal with me.
You feel this nervousness
on the phone there.
They're very...
These guys are dangerous.
All the more reason.
I don't want you...
With all due respect, I don't
want you mucking this up.
What the heck do you mean?
They want my money,
they deal with me,
or I go to a professional.
There's a million dollars here!
- No, see...
- Look Jerry,
you're not selling me
a damn car!
It's my show here. That's that.
It's the way we prefer
to handle it, Jerry.
Hi. How ya doin'?
Real good. How you
doin' today, ma'am?
I'm doing really super
there, thanks.
I'm Mrs. Gunderson.
I have a reservation.
Yup, you sure do,
Mrs. Gunderson.
Is there a phone down
here, ya think?
Detective Sibert?
Yeah, this is Marge Gunderson
from up Brainerd. We spoke.
Yeah, well, actually
I'm in town here.
I had to do a few things
in the Twin Cities,
so I thought I'd check
in with ya
about that USFI search
on Shep Proudfoot.
Oh, yah?
Well, maybe I'll go visit
with him if I have a...
No, I can find that.
Yah, well, thanks a bunch.
Oh, say, say.
Would you happen to know
a good place
for lunch in the downtown area?
The Radisson.
Oh, yah. Is it reasonable?
Hi. How ya doin'?
Yeah. I decided
not to park here.
What do you mean? You decided
not to park here?
Yeah, I just came in. I decided
not to park here, so...
But... Well, I'm sorry, sir...
Yeah, I decided
not to... I, uh...
I'm not... I decided not to take
the trip, as it turns out.
Well, I'm sorry, sir. We've
still gotta charge you the $4.
I just pulled in here.
I just fucking pulled in here.
Well, but, see,
there's a minimum charge of $4.
Long-term parking
charges by the day.
I guess you think you're like
an authority figure,
with that stupid
fucking uniform?
King clip-on tie there.
Big fucking man, huh?
These are the
limits of your life, man.
Ruler of your little
fucking gate.
Here. There's your $4,
you pathetic piece of shit.
- Where's Shep?
- Talking to a cop.
- Cop?
- Said she was a cop.
Do you remember getting a call
Wednesday night?
Nope.
You do reside there at
1425 Freemont Terrace?
Yup.
- Anyone else residing there?
- No.
Well, Mr. Proudfoot,
this call came
in past three in the morning.
It's just hard for me to believe
you don't remember
anyone calling.
Now, I know you've
had some problems.
Struggling with the narcotics,
some other entanglements,
currently on parole.
So?
Well, associating
with criminals,
if you're the one
they talked to,
that right there would be a
violation of your parole.
Would end you up
back in Stillwater.
I saw some rough
stuff on your priors,
but nothing like a homicide.
I know you don't wanna be
an accessory
to something like that.
So, you think you might remember
who those folks
were who called ya?
- Mr. Lundegaard?
- Huh, yeah.
Could I take a minute
of your time here?
What... what is it all about?
D'you mind if I sit down?
Carrying quite a load here.
You're the owner here,
Mr. Lundegaard?
No, Il... Executive
sales manager.
You can help me.
My name is Marge Gunderson.
My father-in-law is the owner.
Uh-huh.
Well, I'm a police officer
from up Brainerd investigating
some malfeasance.
I was wondering if
you'd had any vehicles
stolen off the lot in the
past couple of weeks.
Specifically,
a tan-colored Ciera.
Mr. Lundegaard?
Brainerd?
Yah, yah. Home of Paul Bunyan,
Babe the Blue Ox.
Yeah, you know,
we got that big statue up there.
So, you haven't had any vehicles
go missing, then?
No. No, ma'am.
Okey-dokey, thanks a bunch.
I'll let you get back to
your paperwork, then.
- Yah, get me Shep.
- He's not here right now.
- What the heck d'you mean?
- He stepped out.
- Where did he go?
- I'll get you Arty.
No, I don't need a mechanic.
I need a, uh...
Uh...
Aw, jeez. I gotta talk
to a friend of his.
So, um... have him, um...
- What?
- Aw, jeez.
Mike?
Marge?
Jeez!
- Oh, you look great.
- Yeah, so do you.
Oh, easy there, easy there.
Easy there, easy there.
You do, too. I'm expecting.
Oh, I see that. That's great.
- Oh, what can I get ya?
- Oh, just a Diet Coke, please.
- OK.
- Great.
- This is a nice place.
- Yah.
You know, it's a Radisson,
so it's pretty good. Yah.
So...
You're living in
Edina, then?
Yah, yah, yah. A couple
of years now.
It's actually Eden Prairie,
that school district.
So, Chief Gunderson, then!
So, you married
Norm son-of-a-Gunderson.
- Oh, yah. Long time ago.
- Great. Great.
So, uh, what brings you down...
Are you down here
on that homicide,
if you're allowed
to discuss that?
Oh, yah, yah. But there's not
a heck of a lot to discuss.
OK.
Well, what about you, Mike?
Are you married? You got kids?
Yah, yah. Well...
I was married.
I was married to...
You mind if I sit over here?
I was married to Linda Cooksey.
No, why not sit over there?
I prefer that.
Huh? Oh. Oh. Uh...
OK.
Sorry.
Oh, no, no.
Just so I can see ya.
- Don't have to turn my neck.
- Oh, sure, sure. I understand.
- I didn't mean to...
- No, no.
That's fine.
Yah. Sorry. Uh, sorry.
So, I was married to
Linda Cooksey.
You remember her. She
was a year behind us.
Yeah, I think I remember her.
Yeah. She... Oh, yeah, yeah.
So it didn't work out, huh?
And then I've been working for
Honeywell for a few years now.
Oh, well, they're a good outfit.
If you're an engineer,
you can do worse.
But it's not, uh... It's nothing
like your achievement.
Oh, well, it sounds like
you're doing really super.
It's not that things
didn't work out.
It's, uh... uh...
Linda had leukemia, you know.
She was a... She passed away.
No!
- It was tough.
- There you go.
It was long, uh...
She fought real hard, Marge.
What can you say?
Oh. Better times, huh?
Better times.
Oh, and then I saw ya on the TV
and I remembered, you know,
I always liked you.
- Well, I always liked you, Mike.
- I always liked you so much.
So, Mike, should we
get together another time?
No! I... I...
I'm sorry. It's...
I shouldn't have done this.
I shouldn't.
I thought we'd have a
really terrific time.
It's OK, Mike.
You were such a super lady.
And then... I've been so lonely.
It's OK, Mike.
Here's a song
I'd like to dedicate to all the
ladies out here tonight.
It goes like this.
So, are you from around here?
Just in town on business.
Just in and out.
Just a little of the old
"in and out."
What do you do?
Uh... Uh...
Um, have you been to
the Celebrity Room before
with other, uh, clients?
I don't think so. It's nice.
Yeah, well, it
depends on the artist.
You know, José Feliciano,
you got no complaints.
Waiter.
Is he deaf?
So, uh, how long you work for
the escort service?
I don't know. A few months.
Find that work
interesting, do you?
What are you talkin' about?
All right.
Come on. I'm hearing bells.
Come on, huh?
All right. Where were ya?
Huh? Huh?
Shep, what the hell you doin'?
I'm bangin' that girl. Ow!
Fucking asshole!
Get the fuck outta here!
Put me back in Stillwater,
you little fucking shithead.
Get the fuck outta here!
Yo!
Cut that shit out, man.
I'm trying to get some
goddamn sleep here.
- Come on, brother.
- Fuck you.
- Argh! Animals!
- Animals! Animals!
- Stay away from me, man.
Hey, smoke a fucking peace pipe!
Wait! Don't you dare
fucking hit me!
Fucking little weasel.
- Fuck you, man.
- Ow! Stop it!
You fucking, motherfucking,
son-of-a-bitching, fucking cock!
Jesus Christ! You fucking
shitbag motherfucker!
Yah?
Alright Jerry, I'm through
fucking around.
- You got the fucking money?
- Yah, I got the money, but...
Don't you fucking
"but" me, Jerry!
I want you with this money at
the Radisson parking ramp,
top level, 30 minutes,
- and we wrap this thing up.
- OK, but, um...
You're there in 30 minutes or
I find you, Jerry,
I shoot you, your fucking wife
and all your children.
And I shoot 'em in the
back of their heads, you got it?
OK now, you stay
away from Scotty now.
- Got it?
- OK. Real good, then.
Dad?
- It's OK, Scotty.
- Where you goin'?
I'll be back in a minute.
If Stan calls, you just tell him
I went to Embers.
OK. Here's your damn money.
Now where's my daughter?
You...
You goddamn punk!
Who the fuck are you?
Who the fuck are you?!
I've got your damn money.
Where's my daughter?
I am through fucking around.
Drop that fucking briefcase!
- Where's my daughter?
- Fuck you, man! Where's Jerry?
I gave simple
fucking instructions!
Where's my damn daughter?
No Jean, no money.
- Drop that fucking money!
- No Jean, no money!
Is this a fucking joke here?
Oh...
jeez.
You happy now, asshole?
What's with you people?
You fucking imbeciles.
You fucking shot me!
Aaaargh!
May I have your ticket, please?
Open the fucking gate!
Oh, jeez.
- Dad?
- Yah?
Stan Grossman called.
- Yeah, OK.
- Twice.
OK.
Is... is everything OK?
Yah.
Are you callin' Stan?
Well, I'm...
I'm going to bed now.
- How ya doin'?
- Mr. Mohra?
- Yah.
- Officer Olson.
Yah. Righto.
Well, so I'm tendin' bar
down there
at Ecklund and Swedlin's
last Tuesday.
This little guy's drinkin'
and he says "Where can
a guy find some action?"
"I'm goin' crazy out
there at the lake.”
I says, "What kind of action?"
He says, "Woman action.
What do I look like?"
And I says
"What do I look like?
I don't arrange
that kind of thing."
He says "I'm goin'
crazy at the lake."
And I says "But this ain't
that kind of place.”
He says "Oh, I get it.
So you think I'm a
jerk for askin?"
Only he don't use the word
"jerk." Then he calls me a jerk.
Says the last guy who thought
he was a jerk is dead now,
so I don't say nothin'.
He says "What d'you think
about that?"
I says "Don't sound like a
good deal for him."
- You got that right!
- Yeah.
Says "Guy's dead,
and not of old age."
Then he says "Jeez, I'm goin'
crazy out there at the lake."
- White Bear Lake?
- Ecklund and Swedlin
that's closer to Moose Lake,
so I made that assumption.
Anyway, he's drinkin'
at the bar,
so I don't think a
great deal of it.
But Mrs. Mohra heard about
the homicides down here
and thought I should call it in,
so... I called it in.
End of story.
What did this guy
look like, anyways?
Oh, he's a little guy,
kinda funny-lookin'.
Uh-huh. In what way?
Oh, justin a
general kind of way.
OK, thanks a bunch Mr. Mohra.
You're right, it's
probably nothin',
- but thanks for callin' her in.
- Sure.
Looks like she's gonna
turn cold tomorrow.
Oh, yah. Got a front comin' in.
Yah, you got that right.
Jesus Christ.
Valeria, I'm leavin' this
morning, back up to Brainerd.
Well, I'm sorry I won't see ya.
Mm. But you think
he's all right?
- I saw him last night and...
- What did he say?
It's nothing specific he said.
It just seemed like it all hit
him really hard,
his wife dyin',
- His wife?
- Linda.
- Who?
- Linda Cooksey.
No. No, no, they weren't...
He was bothering Linda for
over a year,
really pestering her.
Wouldn't leave her alone.
So...
He didn't... They never...
No. No, they never married.
Mike's had psychiatric problems.
Oh, my.
Yah. He's been struggling. He's
living with his parents now.
Oh, jeez.
Linda's fine.
You should call her.
Jeez. Well... jeez.
That's a surprise.
Hello?
Mr. Lundegaard. Sorry to
bother you again. Can I come in?
Yah. No, I'm kinda...
I'm kinda busy here.
I understand.
I'll keep it real short, then.
I'm on my way outta town,
but I was wondering...
Mind if I sit down?
Carryin' a bit of a load here.
No. I...
It's this vehicle I asked you
about. I was wondering...
Yah, like I told ya, we haven't
had any vehicles go missing.
OK. Are ya sure?
Cos, I mean, how do you know?
The crime I'm investigating, the
perpetrators were driving a car
with dealer plates and called
someone who works here,
so it would be quite a
coincidence if they weren't,
you know, connected.
- Yah, I see.
- So how do you...
Have you done
any kind of inventory recently?
The car's not from
our lot, ma'am.
How can you be sure
without doin' a...
Well, I would know.
I'm the executive sales manager.
Yah, but I understand...
We run a pretty tight ship here.
I know, but how
do they establish that?
Are the cars counted daily,
or what kind of a routine here?
Ma'am! I answered your question.
I'm sorry, sir?
Ma'am, I answered
your question.
I answered the darn... I'm
cooperating here,
and there's no...
Sir, you have no call to
get snippy with me.
- I'm just doing my job here.
- I'm...
I'm not... I'm not arguin' here.
I'm cooperating and there's
no... We're doin" all we can.
Sir, could I talk to
Mr. Gustafson?
Mr. Lundegaard.
Well, heck! If you wanna...
if you wanna play games here...
I'm workin' with ya
on this thing here, but...
OK, I'll do a damn lot count.
- Sir, right now?
- Yah, right now.
You're darned tootin'.
If it's so damned
important to ya.
Well, I'm sorry, sir.
Ah, what the Christ. Jesus!
Oh, for Pete's sake.
For Pete's sake,
he's fleein' the interview.
He's fleein' the interview!
How do I get an
outside line here?
Uh...
Great.
Yah, Detective Sibert, please.
I told you it was
over. I made myself clear.
Oh, you did. You made yourself
perfectly clear,
but something's come up.
- What?
- It's something kind of small,
but it might be a big problem.
- I'm pregnant.
- Huh?
I'm pregnant.
I've had a doctor's test,
I've got the certificates,
and there's no doubt about it.
I'm gonna have your baby.
You should see the other guy.
What the fuck happened to her?
Oh, she started shriekin',
you know.
Jesus.
Well, I got the money.
All of it. All 80 grand.
That's 40 for you. 40 for me.
That's it, then.
You can have my truck.
I'm takin' the Ciera.
We split that.
How the fuck do you split
a fuckin' car, you dummy?
With a fuckin' chain saw?
One of us pays the
other for half.
Hold on. No fuckin' way.
Did you fuckin' notice this?
I got fuckin' shot!
I got fuckin' shot in the face.
I went and got the
fuckin' money.
I got shot fuckin'
pickin" it up.
I've been up for 36
fuckin' hours.
I'm takin' that fuckin' car.
That fucker's mine,
you fuckin' asshole.
I've had to listen to
your fuckin' bullshit all week.
Are we square?
Yeah, you fuckin' mute.
If you see your friend
Shep Proudfoot,
tell him I'm gonna nail
his fuckin' ass.
His wife, this guy says,
was kidnapped last Wednesday.
- The day of our homicides.
- Yah.
And this guy was who?
Lundegaard's
father-in-law's accountant.
- Gustafson's accountant?
- Yah.
But we still haven't
found Gustafson?
- Sorry. Didn't copy, Lou.
- Still missing. We're looking.
- Copy. And Lundegaard, too?
- Yah. Where are ya, Margie?
I'm almost back. I'm takin'
a drive round Moose Lake.
- Oh, Gary's loudmouth.
- Yah, the loudmouth.
So the whole state has it, huh?
Gustafson and Lundegaard.
Yah, it's over the wire. It's
everywhere. They'll find them.
- Copy.
- Yah, we got a lead on a...
There's the car!
Whose car?
My car! My car!
Tan Ciera. Tan Ciera.
OK. Careful, Margie.
I'll send a couple of cars.
Police!
Hands up!
So that was Mrs. Lundegaard
on the floor in there?
And I guess that was your
accomplice in the wood chipper.
And those three
people in Brainerd.
And for what?
For a little bit of money.
There's more to life
than a little money, you know.
Don't you know that?
And here y'are.
- And it's a beautiful day.
Well.
I just don't understand it.
Mr. Anderson?
- Who?
- Mr. Anderson.
Is this your burgundy
'98 out here?
Just a sec.
Could you open the
door, please?
Yah, yah, just a sec.
Just a sec.
No!
Ooh.
They announced it.
- They announced it?
- Yah.
So?
Three-cent stamp.
- Your mallard?
- Yah.
Oh, that's terrific.
- It's just the three-cent.
- It's terrific.
Hautmans' blue-winged teal
got the 29-cent.
People don't much
use the three-cent.
Oh, for Pete's sake,
of course, they do.
Whenever they raise the postage,
people need the little stamps.
Yeah?
When they're stuck with
a bunch of the old ones.
Yah, I guess.
It's terrific.
I'm so proud of you, Norm.
Heck, Norm, you know,
we're doin' pretty good.
I love you, Margie.
I love you, Norm.
Two more months.